# CCT 2019

https://tryhackme.com/room/cct2019

Rated: INSANE

Not *too* tough, just a lot of work. Just be methodical, and in some challenges you need to make some leaps (particularly crypto)

## Task 1 - "pcap1"

- the pcap file is a series of usb messages, with the data being in the 'usb.capdata' field ('leftover capture data' in the wireshark ui)
- this can be extracted with tshark, like so: `tshark -r pcap2.pcapng -Y 'usb.src == "1.7.1"' -Tfields -e usb.capdata > raw`
- the result will be hex encoded, so convert to raw binary with cyberchef or using xxd: `xxd -r -p raw raw2.bin`
- you can then use binwalk to see this is a zip file, and extract its contents (another pcap) with `binwalk -e raw2.bin`
- in the second pcap, whats immediately obvious is a lot of icmp packets. filtering to just those without the standard data length, a conversation becomes visible
- the conversation mentions sending data using 'cryptcat', using that 'Angela Bennett uses it to log into the Bethesda Naval Hospital'. this is a reference to the film The Net from 1995, where the pass `BER5348833` was used.
- the data sent was sent to the metasploit port 4444, and can be seen and extracted with `tshark -r pcap_chal.pcap -Y 'tcp.dstport == 4444' -Tfields -e data.data > raw3` and decoded from hex with `xxd -r -p raw3 raw4.bin`
- to decrpt with the password, simple way is to use cryptcat and netcat: cryptcat to listen with `cryptcat -vv -k BER5348833 -l -p 1337 > raw5.bin` and netcat to send with `nc -vv -w 1 localhost 1337 <raw4.bin`
- using `file` on raw5.bin will reveal it as a ELF binary.
- decompiling this ghidra (it would not run properly on any machine i had access to) will reveal that past some IRC messages, it takes a message encoded in the binary and applies ROT13 then reverses it, before wrapping with CCT{}. the string can be taken from ghidra or recovered using strings, then rotted with cyberchef and reversed - the final flag is leetcode with a harry potter theme

## Task 2 - "re3"

- the download is a windows executable, and using strings on it reveals it to be a .NET binary pretty quickly (System. stuff, mscorlib etc)
- running it showed four sliders, and if each is aligned to the right number a button will reveal the flag.
- to examine the binary, I used [dotPeek](https://www.jetbrains.com/decompiler/) a free decompiler, which showed the four numbers must sum to 711 and multiply (their product) to 711000000.
- instead of doing the math, the solution was to extract the byte array that is decoded using the answer. This is a 32 byte array, where based on the value of one of the sliders, each character is XOR'd with (177 - the_value). The final result must be a valid 32-character hex string

To solve this, I used https://replit.com/languages/csharp to write some C# code and run it, the code shown below:

```csharp
using System;

class Program {
    static void Main(string[] args) {
        byte[] byteA = new byte[32]
          {
            (byte) 20,
            (byte) 22,
            // ... copied from decompilation
          };

    for (var A_1 = 0; A_1 <= 711; A_1++) {
        var A_3 = new byte[byteA.Length];
        for(var index = 0; index < byteA.Length; index++) 
        {
          var c = (byte) ((uint) byteA[index] ^ (uint) (byte) (177 ^ A_1));
          A_3[index] = c;
        }
        var s = System.Text.Encoding.ASCII.GetString(A_3);
        if (s.Length != 32) continue;
        var valid = true;
        for (var i = 0; i < 32; i++) 
          if (!((s[i] >= 'A' && s[i] <= 'Z') || (s[i] >= '0' && s[i] <= '9'))) {
              valid = false;
          }
        if (valid) Console.WriteLine(A_1+": [["+s+"]]");
      }
  }
}
```

This result in two possible candidates (well, six, but two unique). The second one I tried was successful.

## Task 3 - "for1"

This was basically a stego and brute forcing challenge, which I hate. I struggled and needed a walkthrough for it. Below is the condensed path.

1. The provided file is a jpeg image. By passing it to a site like https://stegonline.georgeom.net/image, you can see a hidden password in the image. This is useful later.
2. The image file also contains a steganographic secret. Use [stegseek --extract](https://github.com/RickdeJager/stegseek) with a large wordlist - the one that worked for me was [weakpass_3w](https://weakpass.com/wordlist/1950). This will extract a second zip file.
3. This zip file can be opened with the password from step 1, revealing cipher.txt, config.txt and flag.zip files.
    - As per the task instructions, the cipher is invalid and should be replaced with `JHSL PGLW YSQO DQVL PFAO TPCY KPUD TF`
4. The config shows the configuration for an enigma machine. Use cipherchef or the suggested site in the task, https://cryptii.com/
    - the enigma machine to use is the only one that supports all the options in the config, namely M4 "Shark"
    - C and G in the config refer to Reflector: UKW C Thin and Rotor 1: Gamma.
    - The two four character words are applied **downwards** on the two rows, e.g. AMTU is the first column named POSITION
    - Finally, the result string, which starts with 'ctf', should have its spaces removed.
5. The result is the password for flag.zip to extract the flag for task 3.

The task would have been alright if not for the stego bits, specifically the password. Steghide is okay, but for a CTF I generally expect rockyou to be the standard wordlist, not some random 10gb thing. Bah.

## Task 4 - "crypto1"

### crypto1a

- The first cipher, crypto1a, can be identified with https://www.dcode.fr/cipher-identifier as a substition cipher (probably). The decoder on the same site for such ciphers can work out the key, https://www.dcode.fr/monoalphabetic-substitution and original message (with some characters missed because they're punctuation.
- The key part of the message is 'can you figure out the key which happens to be the _layout_ which created this' - a quick search of key and layout found keyboard layouts, which while not what I was searching for felt like the answer to the riddle. I tried several latin layout names repeated three times in lower case (as the rest of the message specified), e.g. qwertyqwertyqwerty, qzertyqzertyqzerty, before finding the right one to unlock the next zip file and get the flag.

### crypto1b

- the message before the cipher clearly identifies its form as a railfence cipher. Additionally, a parameter of '5' and 'bottom up' is given. Cyberchef is easiest for this, setting the key to be 5 and then moving the offset until the message reveals itself.
- the password is from 1973's Charlotte's Web film, where you need to track down the goose trying to spell terrific. This video had it for me https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xf5a_F-zNgE. Noting down the spelling the only change is that it should end with six c characters not 4, and be lowercase. This is the pass to the crypto1b.zip file.

### crypto1c

- the message is a large stream of numbers, ranging from 1 to 6, with 1s being the most common. additionally, the task says it should be prefixed with a 0
- took a *long* time to figure this out. the key is to realise that it must translate to text somewhere, which means its first set of characters should probably translate to a letter, so playing around just with a small sample until you get something intelligent helps
- however, in the end it was a bit of a guess: it looks like run length encoding (e.g. AAABCCCC is 3A1B4C and so on) and I wondered if it was runlength encoding for binary. e.g. if each number specifies how many 1s and then how many 0s. In this fashion, the start of the cipher, `01112211`, translates to `010110010` (e.g. zero 1s, one 0, one 1, one 0, two 1s, two 0s, one 1, one 0), or the letter 'Y'.
- I wrote a rust script to do the translation (probably a bit overkill to use rust here):

    ```rust
    fn main() {
        let cipher = "01112211....";

      let vals: Vec<u32> = cipher.chars().map(|c| c.to_digit(10).unwrap()).collect();

      let mut result: String = "".into();
      for i in 0..vals.len() {
        let char = if i % 2 == 0 { "1" } else { "0" };
        result += &char.repeat(vals[i as usize] as usize);
      }

      println!("{}", result)
    }
    ```

- and the result was binary I put through cyberchef to get the last message and flag.
